# REST API, v3

**Source:** [](docs/raw/wiki.free.law/c/courtlistener/help/api/rest/v3/overview.html)

---

REST API, v3 Warning Deprecated — This is the documentation for v3.15 of the REST API. Please use the latest version instead. APIs for developers and researchers that need granular legal data. After more than a decade of development, these APIs are powerful. Our case law API was the first. Our PACER and oral argument APIs are the biggest. Our webhooks push data to you. Our citation lookup tool can fight hallucinations in AI tools. Let's get started. To see and browse all the API URLs, click the button below: We could have also pulled up that same information using curl, with a command like: curl "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/overview/" Note that when you press the button in your browser, you get an HTML result, but when you run curl you get a JSON object. This is discussed in more depth below. Listen Up! Something else that's curious just happened. You didn't authenticate to the API. To encourage experimentation, many of our APIs are open by default. The biggest gotcha people have is that they forget to enable authentication before deploying their code. Don't make this mistake! Remember to add authentication. The APIs listed in this response can be used to make queries against our database or search engine. To learn more about an API, you can send an HTTP OPTIONS request to it, like so: curl -X OPTIONS "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/overview/" An OPTIONS request is one of the best ways to understand the API. Support Questions about the APIs can be sent to our GitHub Discussions forum or via our contact form. We prefer that questions be posted in the forum so they can help others. If you are a private organization posting to that forum, we will avoid sharing details about your organization. Ask in GitHub Discussions | Send us a Private Message Data Models Current data models can be found on the REST API, v4.4 documentation. API Overview This section explains the general principles of the API. These principals are driven by the features supported by the Django REST Framework. To go deep on any of these sections, we encourage you to check out the documentation there. Permissions Some of our APIs are only available to select users. If you need greater access to these APIs, please get in touch. All other endpoints are available according to the throttling and authentication limitations listed below. Your Authorization Token Authentication Authentication is necessary to monitor and throttle usage of the system, and so we can assist with any errors that may occur. Per our privacy policy, we do not track your queries in the API, though we do collect statistical information for system monitoring. There are currently three types of authentication available on the API: All of these methods are secure, so the choice of which to use is generally a question of what's most convenient for the context of your work. Our recommendations are: - Use Token Authentication for programmatic API access. - Use Cookie/Session Authentication if you already have a user's cookie or are developing a system where you can ask the user to log into CourtListener. - Use Basic Authentication if that's all your client supports. Token Authentication To use token authentication, use the Authorization HTTP Header. The key should prefix the Token , with whitespace separating the two strings. For example: Authorization: Token <your-token-here> Using curl, this looks like: curl "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/clusters/" \ --header 'Authorization: Token <your-token-here>' Note that quotes are used to enclose the whitespace in the header. Careful! A common mistake is to forget the word "Token" in the header. Sign in to see your authorization token in this documentation. Cookie Authentication To use Cookie Authentication log into CourtListener and pass the cookie value using the standard cookie headers. HTTP Basic Authentication To do HTTP Basic Authentication using curl, you might do something like this: curl --user "harvey:your-password" \ "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/clusters/" You can also do it in your browser with a url like: https://harvey:your-password@www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/clusters/ But if you're using your browser, you might as well just log in. Serialization Formats Requests may be serialized as HTML, JSON, or XML. JSON is the default if no format is specified. The format you wish to receive is requested via the HTTP Accept header. The following media types and parameters can be used: - HTML: The media type for HTML is text/html . - JSON: The media type for JSON is application/json . Providing theindent media type parameter allows clients to set the indenting for the response, for example:Accept: application/json; indent=2 . - XML: The media type for XML is application/xml . By default, browsers send an Accept header similar to: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8 This states that text/html is the preferred serialization format. The API respects that, returning HTML when requested by a browser and returning JSON when no Accept header is provided, because JSON is the default. If you wish to set the Accept header using a tool like cURL, you can do so using the --header flag: curl --header "Accept: application/xml" \ "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/clusters/" All data is serialized using the utf-8 charset. Parsing Uploaded Content If you are a user that has write access to these APIs (most users do not), you will need to use the Content-Type HTTP header to explicitly set the format of the content you are uploading. The header can be set to any of the values that are available for serialization or to application/x-www-form-urlencoded or multipart/form-data , if you are sending form data. Filtering With the exception of the search API, these APIs can be filtered using a technique similar to Django's field lookups. To see how an endpoint can be filtered, do an OPTIONS request on the API and inspect the filters key in the response. In the filters key, you'll find a dictionary listing the fields that can be used for filtering along with their types, lookup fields, and any values (aka choices) that can be used for specific lookups. For example, this uses jq to look at the filters on the docket API: curl -X OPTIONS \ --header 'Authorization: Token <your-token-here>' \ "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/dockets/" | jq '.filters' That returns something like: { "id": { "type": "NumberRangeFilter", "lookup_types": [ "exact", "gte", "gt", "lte", "lt", "range" ] }, ... This means that you can filter dockets using the ID field, and that you can do exact, greater than or equal, greater than, less than or equal, less than, or range filtering. You can use these filters with a double underscore. For example, this gets IDs greater than 500 and less than 1,000: curl \ --header 'Authorization: Token <your-token-here>' \ "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/dockets/?id__gt=500&id__lt=1000" | jq '.count' 499 It also allows ranges (inclusive): curl \ --header 'Authorization: Token <your-token-here>' \ "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/dockets/?id__range=500,1000" | jq '.count' 501 Filters can be combined using multiple GET parameters. There are a few special types of filters. The first are Related Filters , which allow you to join filters across APIs. For example, when you are using the docket API, you'll see that it has a filter for the court API: "court": { "type": "RelatedFilter", "lookup_types": "See available filters for 'Courts'" } This means that you can use any of the court filters on the docket API. If you do an OPTIONS request on the court API, you'll see its filters: curl -X OPTIONS \ --header 'Authorization: Token <your-token-here>' \ "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/courts/" | jq '.filters' Again, one of the filters is the ID field, but it only allows exact values on this API: "id": { "type": "CharFilter", "lookup_types": [ "exact" ] } Putting this together, here's how you look up dockets for a particular court: curl \ --header 'Authorization: Token <your-token-here>' \ "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/dockets/?court=scotus&id__range=500,1000" | jq '.count' 36 This opens up many possibilities. For example, another filter on the Court endpoint is for jurisdictions . To use it, you would use a GET parameter like court__jurisdictions=FD . In this case, the double underscore allows you to join the filter from the other court API to the docket API. If you want to join a filter, you could do something like court__full_name__startswith=district . That would return dockets in courts where the court's name starts with "district". RelatedFilters can span many objects. For example, if you want to get all the Supreme Court Opinion objects, you will need to do that with a query such as: curl "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/opinions/?cluster__docket__court=scotus" This uses the Opinion API to get Opinions that are part of Opinion Clusters that are on Dockets in the Court with the ID of scotus . To understand this data model better, see the case law API documentation. To use date filters, supply dates in ISO-8601 format. A final trick that can be used with the filters is the exclusion parameter. Any filter can be converted into an exclusion filter by prepending it with an exclamation mark. For example, this returns Dockets from non-Federal Appellate jurisdictions: curl "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/dockets/?court__jurisdiction!=F" You can see more examples of filters in our automated tests. Ordering With the exception of the search API, you can see which fields can be used for ordering, by looking at the ordering key in an OPTIONS request. For example, the Position endpoint contains this: "ordering": [ "id", "date_created", "date_modified", "date_nominated", "date_elected", "date_recess_appointment", "date_referred_to_judicial_committee", "date_judicial_committee_action", "date_hearing", "date_confirmation", "date_start", "date_retirement", "date_termination" ] Thus, you can order using any of these fields in conjunction with the order_by parameter. Descending order can be done using a minus sign. Multiple fields can be requested using a comma-separated list. This, for example, returns judicial Positions ordered by the most recently modified, then by the most recently elected: curl "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/positions/?order_by=-date_modified,-date_elected" Ordering by fields with duplicate values is non-deterministic. If you wish to order by such a field, you should provide a second field as a tie-breaker to consistently order results. For example, ordering by date_filed will not return consistent ordering for items that have the same date, but this can be fixed by ordering by date_filed,id . In that case, if two items have the same date_filed value, the tie will be broken by the id field. Field Selection To save bandwidth and increase serialization performance, fields can be limited by using the fields parameter with a comma-separated list of fields. For example, to only receive the educations and date_modified fields from the Judge endpoint you could do so with: curl "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/people/?fields=educations,date_modified" { "educations": [ { "resource_uri": "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/educations/12856/", "id": 12856, "school": { "resource_uri": "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/schools/4240/", "id": 4240, "is_alias_of": null, "date_created": "2010-06-07T17:00:00-07:00", "date_modified": "2010-06-07T17:00:00-07:00", "name": "University of Maine", "ein": 16000769 }, "person": "https://www.courtlistener.com/api/rest/v3/people/16214/", "date_created": "2023-03-31T07:15:28.556198-07:00", "date_modified": "2023-03-31T07:15:28.556222-07:00", "degree_level": "jd", "degree_detail": "", "degree_year": 1979 } ], "date_modified": "2023-03-31T07:15:28.409594-07:00" }, ... You can also exclude fields using fields!=educations,date_modified . Unfortunately, this cannot be used for nested resources, though there is an open issue tracking this. Rate Limits By default, authenticated users may make up to 5 requests per minute, 50 requests per hour, and 125 requests per day. You may be eligible for a Free Law Project membership to expand your API access. Commercial agreements [are also available][c-partnerships]. All throttles apply concurrently, so the most restrictive one — given your recent traffic — is what controls whether the next request is accepted. Creating more than one account per project, person, or organization is forbidden. If you are in doubt, please contact us before creating multiple accounts. If you are having throttling issues, please see our article on this topic. Join Free Law Project [ Become a Partner ][c-partnerships]{button} Performance Tips A few things to consider that may increase your performance: When doing deep crawls of the data, going to very high page numbers will incur increasingly bad performance. This is common in databases because to go to a high page number means sorting the entire data set, then counting to the correct location. Page 50 isn't a big deal. Page 2,000 starts getting slower. The fix to this solution is often to work with "slices" of the data. Instead of paginating across the whole result set, use a date field or another range-type field to only paginate over a smaller set of the data. For example, you could slice a large result set by the month of the date filing field to prevent deep pagination. Be careful to slice using a field with a normal distribution. Do not use one like date_created , which could have extreme spikes of activity.Avoid doing queries like court__id=xyz when you can instead docourt=xyz . Doing queries with the extra__id introduces a join that can be expensive.In general, less data is easier and faster to get than more. Could you use a field to filter your result set down to something smaller? When using the search endpoint, smaller result sets are faster. It isn't always possible to tweak your query to return fewer results, but sometimes it is possible to do a more precise query first, thus making a broader query unnecessary. For example, a search for an individual in their expected jurisdiction will be faster than doing it in the entire corpus. This will benefit from profiling in your use case and application. Advanced Field Definitions Placing an HTTP OPTIONS request on an API is the best way to learn about its fields, but some fields require further explanation. APIs Case Law APIs We started collecting case law in 2009 and launched this API in 2013 as the first API for legal decisions. Use this API to build your own collection of case law, complete complex legal research, and more. PACER Data APIs We have almost half a billion PACER-related objects in the RECAP Archive. Use these APIs to access and understand this data. RECAP APIs Use these APIs to gather data from PACER and to share your PACER data with the public. Search API CourtListener allows you to search across hundreds of millions of items with advanced fields and operators. Use this API to automate the CourtListener search engine. Judge APIs Use these APIs to query and analyze thousands of federal and state court judges, including their biographical information, political affiliations, education and employment histories, and more. Financial Disclosure APIs All federal judges and many state judges must file financial disclosure documents to indicate any real or perceived biases they may have. Use these APIs to work with this information. Oral Argument APIs CourtListener is home to the largest collection of oral argument recordings on the Internet. Use these APIs to gather and analyze our collection. Citation Lookup and Verification API Use this API to look up citations in CourtListener's database of millions of citations. This API can look up either an individual citation or can parse and look up every citation in a block of text. This can be useful as a guardrail to help prevent hallucinated citations. Citation Network APIs Use these APIs to traverse and analyze our network of citations between legal decisions. Alert APIs CourtListener is a scalable system for sending alerts by email or webhook based on search queries or for particular cases. Use these APIs to create, modify, list, and delete alerts. Visualization APIs To see and make Supreme Court case visualizations, use these APIs. Available Jurisdictions We currently have 3,358 jurisdictions that can be accessed with our APIs. Details about the jurisdictions that are available, including all abbreviations, can be found here. Upgrades and Fixes Like the rest of the CourtListener platform, this API and its documentation are open source. If it lacks functionality that you desire or if you find this documentation lacking, pull requests providing improvements are encouraged. Just get in touch via our contact form to discuss your ideas. Or, if it's something quick, just go ahead and send us a pull request. Getting this kind support is one of the most rewarding things possible for an organization like ours and is a major goal of Free Law Project. Many of the features you use on CourtListener were built this way. We're building something together. Maintenance Schedule There is a weekly maintenance window from 21:00-23:59PT on Thursday nights. If you are scheduling cron jobs or otherwise crawling the API, you may experience downtime during this window. Additionally, we regularly perform bulk tasks on our servers and maintain a public calendar for tracking them. You may encounter larger delays while bulk processing jobs are running. API Change Log Copyright Our data is free of known copyright restrictions.